Rework extension backend doc (#16236)
docker/docs: desktop/extensions-sdk/build/set-up/backend-extension-tutorial.md

---
title: Add a backend to your extension
description: Learn how to add a backend to your extension.
keywords: Docker, extensions, sdk, build
redirect_from:
  - /desktop/extensions-sdk/tutorials/minimal-backend-extension/
  - /desktop/extensions-sdk/build/minimal-backend-extension/
---

Your extension can ship a backend part with which the frontend can interact with. This page provides information on
why and how to add a backend.

> Note
>
> Before you start, make sure you have installed the latest version of [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/).

> Note
>
> If you want to start a codebase for your new extension, our [Quickstart guide](../../quickstart.md) and `docker extension init <my-extension>` provides a better base for your extension as it is more up-to-date and related to your install of Docker Desktop.

## Why add a backend?

Thanks to the Docker Extensions SDK, most of the time you should be able to do what you need from the Docker CLI

> directly from [the frontend](./frontend-extension-tutorial.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directly from [the frontend](./frontend-extension-tutorial.md#use-the-extension-apis-client).
```

Nonetheless, there are some cases where you might need to add a backend to your extension. So far, extension
builders have used the backend to:
- Store data in a local database and serve them back with a REST API.
- Store the extension state, like when a button starts a long-running process, so that if you navigate away

>   from the extension and come back, the frontend can pick up where it left off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  from the extension user interface and come back, the frontend can pick up where it left off.
```

    └── index.html
└── vm # (2)
    ├── go.mod
    └── main.go
```

1. Contains everything required to build the backend and copy it in the extension's container filesystem.
2. The source folder that contains the backend code of the extension

Although you can start from an empty directory or from the `vm-ui extension` [sample](https://github.com/docker/extensions-sdk/tree/main/samples){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"},
it is highly recommended that you start from the `docker extension init` command and change it to suit your needs.

> **Tip**
>
> The `docker extension init` generates a Go backend. But you can still use it as a starting point for
> your own extension and use any other language like Node.js, Python, Java, .Net, or any other language and framework.
{: .tip }

On this tutorial, the backend service simply exposes one route that returns a JSON payload that says "Hello".

```json
{ "Message": "Hello" }
```

> **Important**
>
> We recommend that, the frontend and the backend communicate through sockets (and named pipes on Windows) instead of
> HTTP. On one hand, because it will prevent port collision with any other running application or container running

> > on the host. On the other hand, because some Docker Desktop users might be unable to open ports on their machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> on the host. On the other hand, because some Docker Desktop users are running in constrained environments where they can't open ports on their machines.
```

	Message string
}
```

  </div>
  <div id="node-app" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

<br/>

> **Important**
>
> We don't have a working example for Node yet. [Fill out the form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdxJDGFJl5oJ06rG7uqtw1rsSBZpUhv_s9HHtw80cytkh2X-Q/viewform?usp=pp_url&entry.25798127=Node)
> and let us know you'd like a sample for Node.
{: .important }

  </div>
  <div id="python-app" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

<br/>

> **Important**
>
> We don't have a working example for Python yet. [Fill out the form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdxJDGFJl5oJ06rG7uqtw1rsSBZpUhv_s9HHtw80cytkh2X-Q/viewform?usp=pp_url&entry.25798127=Python)
> and let us know you'd like a sample for Python.
{: .important }

  </div>
  <div id="java-app" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

<br/>

> **Important**
>
> We don't have a working example for Java yet. [Fill out the form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdxJDGFJl5oJ06rG7uqtw1rsSBZpUhv_s9HHtw80cytkh2X-Q/viewform?usp=pp_url&entry.25798127=Java)
> and let us know you'd like a sample for Java.
{: .important }

  </div>
  <div id="net-app" class="tab-pane fade" markdown="1">

<br/>

> **Important**
>

> > We don't have a working example for .Net. [Fill out the form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdxJDGFJl5oJ06rG7uqtw1rsSBZpUhv_s9HHtw80cytkh2X-Q/viewform?usp=pp_url&entry.25798127=.Net)

Reviewer: could we take the example that Felipe put together for .NET ? (absolutely not a blocker here, we can merge this PR without this)

Author: I thought about it and actually, it contains a lot of things I don't master. So I was planning to add it in another PR with him to see what are the minimum pieces mandatory to put here

Reviewer: 👍 totally fine, keep this for later, and not in this PR

> and let us know you'd like a sample for .Net.
{: .important }

  </div>
</div>

## Adapt the Dockerfile

> **Note**
>
> When using the `docker extension init`, it creates a `Dockerfile` that already contains what is needed for a Go backend.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs">
  <li class="active"><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#go-dockerfile" data-group="go">For Go</a></li>
  <li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#node-dockerfile" data-group="node">For Node</a></li>
  <li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#python-dockerfile" data-group="python">For Python</a></li>
  <li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#java-dockerfile" data-group="java">For Java</a></li>
  <li><a data-toggle="tab" data-target="#net-dockerfile" data-group="net">.For Net</a></li>

> </ul>

Reviewer: Something is broken in this tab selection, it navigates to a different group of tabs

Author: @aevesdocker there is a weird behavior, I can show you on zoom if you want. But nothing blocking for us RN :)
